nsrahwe - global code project
tourist sites
Ashanti Region
1. Manhyia Palace museum*
The Manhyia Palace is the seat of the Asantehene of Asanteman, as well as his official residence.
It is located in Kumasi, the capital of the Ashanti Kingdom and Ashanti Region. 
The palace built by the British after the "War of the Golden Stool", was converted into a museum 
and officially opened on 12 August 1995 by the then king, Otumfuo Opoku Ware II. It was used by the Ashanti
kings until 1974; the current Asantehene now lives in a modern compound behind the museum.



2. Kumasi Fort - Ghana Armed Forces Museum*
Kumasi Fort - Ghana Armed Forces Museum is a military history museum located in Kumasi, Ghana. It was established
in 1953. It is an old Uaddara barracks that has  a substantial collection of weapons, photographs, and medals. museum
showcases ancient war drums, small caliber weapons, armored cars, aircrafts, and more.
 
3. Lake Bosomtwe*
Lake Bosumtwe is the only natural lake in Ashanti and Ghana. It is situated within an ancient impact crater that 
is about 10.5 kilometres in diameter. It is about 30 km south-east of Kumasi the capital of Ashanti and is a popular
recreational area. Lake Bosumtwe is a lake formed by an ancient meteorite strike in the Ashanti Region. The name means
"Antelope God" because it is said to be discovered by a hunter chasing an antelope that disappeared into the lake like
it was trying to save the animal. The lake is seen as very sacred place to the Ashanti people who live in the area.
The lake is about a half an hour drive from Kumasi. The shore is dotted with villages and it is believed the population
in the area is close to 70,000 people

4. Okomfo Anokye Sword Site*
The ‘unmovable’ Sword of the Komfo Anokye remains in the grounds of the Okomfo Anokye Teaching Hospital, where he
pushed it. Historical accounts have it that, Okomfo Anokye one day “planted” a sword in the ground, and told those 
present at the event that the day the sword would be uprooted, the Asante Kingdom would collapse. Numerous people
over the years have tried to uproot the sword but all in vain. What a mighty legacy and magic left!

5. Kumasi Zoo*
The Kumasi Zoo is a zoo located in the heart of Kumasi in the Ashanti Region of Ghana. The zoo occupies a 
1.5-square-kilometre area between the Kejetia Bus Terminal, the old race course and the Kumasi Centre for National 
Culture. The Kumasi Zoo was established in 1957 by Dr. A.A.Y. Kyeremanteng who also founded the Kumasi Cultural Centre.
The first animals in the zoo included buffalo and chimpanzee but this has grown to include a modest selection of Ghana's
wildlife. The zoo is centrally located in one of the most enviable locations in the city. 
  

Greater Accra Region
1. the national musuem
2. Independence square*
3. The Du Bois Memorial Center for Pan-Africa Culture
3. Kwame Nkrumah Mausoleum*
4. Center for National Culture - Accra
5. Makola Shopping Mall
6. The national theater
7. Accra Zoo
8. The osu castle(christiansborg)-Accra
9. Cocoloco Beach
10. Korle Beach Resort


Brong Ahafo Region
1. Kintampo Falls*
Kintampo waterfalls is one of the highest waterfalls in Ghana. Also known as "" during the colonial days,
it is located on the Pumpum river, a tributary of the Black Volta, about 4 kilometres (2.5 mi) north of Kintampo 
municipality, on the Kumasi–Tamale road. This waterfall, one of the main natural attractions in the area, is hidden in
the forest and it is formed by 3 main drops where the longest drop measures 25 metres (82 ft) in height, and, after a 
number of steps and cascades, the river falls about 70 metres (230 ft).

2. Boabeng-Fiema Monkey Sanctuary*
Fiema is a popular tourist attraction in the Nkoranza North District, a district in the Brong-Ahafo Region of Ghana. It is 
informally known as the Boabeng-Fiema monkey sanctuary. It is a home for about 700 monkeys. 

3. Traditional Cloth Making at Boama*
About 20km from Techiman, on the Sunyani-Techiman Road, is the traditional cloth-making village of Nsuta. There a type of
coarse jute-like cloth called "Kyenkyen" which is produced from the bark of a tree by the same name. It is fascinating
 to watch the cloth-making process of this special fabric that was worn in ancient times, long before the introduction of
 machine-made textiles.


5. Lake Volta*
Lake Volta lies along the Greenwich Meridian, and just six degrees of latitude north of the Equator. The lake’s northernmost
 point is close to the town of Yapei, and its southernmost extreme is at the Akosombo Dam, 520 kilometers (320 mi) downstream
 from Yapei. Akosombo Dam holds back both the White Volta River and the Black Volta River, which formerly converged, where the
 middle of the reservoir now lies, to form the single Volta River. The present Volta River flows from the outlets of the dam’s 
powerhouse and spillways to the Atlantic Ocean in southmost Ghana.

Western Region
1. Akatekyi Crocodile Pond*
30km west of Takoradi, at the Akatekyi Lagoon, you will find a pond where crocodiles are enticed from the water by the incantations 
of a fetish priest and the protests of a live fowl.The crocodiles are sacred and are part of the cultural embodiment of the people 
in the area.  You can observe this ritual every day except Wednesday (a sacred day).
Although there is no formal admission fee, you should bring a bottle of Schnapps for the libation ceremony and some cash
 (in cedis) for the cost of the fowl.

2. The Village on Stilt of Nzulezu*
The Village on Stilt of Nzulezu is 90km west of Takoradi, and 5km north of Beyin, is Nzulezo, which means ""surface of water"".
 This settlement is located on one side of Lake Tadane which is fed by two nearby rivers. Inhabitants of the village are
 said to have migrated here from Walata,
 a city in the ancient Ghana Empire. According to legend their ancestors were guided to this particular spot by a snail.
Nearly everything in this village on stilts take place on or just above the water - cooking, schooling, recreation, etc.
 Whenever a new baby is born, it is baptized in the lake, which is believed to be a protection against drowning.
 To preset the ecology, the local people use traditional bamboo hooks instead of lead ones for fishing. The best time to
 visit the settlement is during the rainy seasons (April to September). During the rest of the year, as the parts of the 
lake bed dry out, you will have to walk some distance before taking a canoe to the village. Be sure to wear comfortable 
shoes that you do not mind getting wet. Nzulezo welcomes visitors every day except Thursday, which is a sacred day. 
There is a fee for a canoe and oarsmen.

3. Fort Groot Fredericksburg at Princess Town*
Located on Manfro Hill 5km east of Fort St. Antonio, this fort was built by the Brandeburgers in 1683. Danish lodge
 in 1658, fort built in 1682. Fort built in 1683, abandoned in 1716 and shortly afterwards occupied by local chief, 
John Conny, in 1717, who remained in occupation until 1725 when it was captured by the Dutch and renamed Fort Hollandia. 
It remained in the possession of the Dutch until 1872 when it was ceded to Britain.

4. Fort Sebastian at Shama*
Sebastian was originally constructed and named by the Portuguese c.1520-26. However, its first appearance on a map was
 in the context of Di Castaldi’s Venetian map of 1564. In putting up the fort, the Portuguese hoped to stop English ships
 from interfering in their trade in the Shama area. Sebastian was originally constructed and named by the Portuguese c.1520-26. 
However, its first appearance on a map was in the context of Di Castaldi’s Venetian map of 1564. In putting up the fort,
 the Portuguese hoped to stop English ships from interfering in their trade in the Shama area.
Built as a Dutch lodge in 1526. Portuguese fort built in 1590. Abandoned in 1600. Restored and altered by the Dutch c.1638,
 enlarged in 1640-2. Attacked by the English under Captain Robert Holme. Temporally in English hands, in 1664-65. The Dutch 
struck back under De Ruyter, re-occupied it the same year and rebuilt it in 1666. Abandoned it before 1870. Ceded to Britain
 in 1872. Restored in 1954-57.

Upper East Region
1. Naa Gbewaa’s Shrine*
This traditional shrine commemorates Naa Gbewaa’s at Pusiga who founded the mole-Dagbon tribe in the 13th century. Pusiga, 90 km east
 of Bolgatanga, history has it that Naa Gbewa, founder of the Mole-Dagbani tribes, finally settled at Pusiga and died there in the 13th
 century. His descendants continue to worship at the shrine.

2. Paga Crocodile Pond*
Paga Crocodile Pond is located at the Northeast border, this is a sacred sanctuary for crocodiles. The reptiles are enticed from the water by the
 custodians and make a surprising photograph to take home. Paga is noted for its sacred pond, which is a sanctuary for crocodiles.
 The crocodiles are said to be totems for the people of Kassena, who reside in Paga and the surrounding communities. 
It is believed that each native of Paga has a corresponding crocodile representing each person's soul. Local tradition has
 it that there have been actual instances when deaths of important personalities in the community coincided with that of 
some crocodiles. The reptiles are normally enticed out of the pond by the whistling of the caretaker and the brandishing 
of a fowl, which the crocodiles quickly snatch with their snouts. If you are courageous, you can sit on, or hold the beast's
 tail for a good camera pose. The caretaker charges a fee for the fowl and basic interpretation.


3. Tongo Whispering Rocks*
Tongo is a small town near the Upper East regional capital, Bolgatanga, and the capital of Talensi-Nabdam district, a 
district in the Upper East Region of Northern Ghana. Tongo is known for the, Tengzug shrine, Tongo whispering rocks and
 for its sowing and harvest festivals. The Tengzug shrine, tucked away in the remote village of Tengzug in Tongo, is 
unique due to its origin and the way in which local people worship in it.

4. Bolga Market*
A splendid place to meet traders from all over the region and bargain for basket ware, leather goods and traditional clothing

Volta Region
1. Wli waterfalls*
Wli Waterfalls is the highest waterfall in Ghana and the tallest in West Africa. It has a lower and an upper fall. Wli Waterfalls
 is located 20 km from Hohoe in the Volta Region of Ghana. The falls is known locally as Agumatsa waterfalls - meaning, "Allow Me to Flow."

2. Tafi Atome Monkey Sanctuary*
Tafi Atome is home to the Tafi Atome Monkey Sanctuary, one of the most popular and well run ecotourism projects in the Volta Region of Ghana.
According to local guides, the mona monkeys native to this area were once considered sacred. As residents converted to Christianity, the taboos on killing monkeys began to be ignored, leading to declining numbers. Seeing the potential to develop an ecotourism project and protect the monkeys, the village worked with an American Peace Corps volunteer to establish a sanctuary.

Today, Tafi Atome is one of the most well run ecotourism projects in Ghana. Proceeds are reinvested in the community,
 including the recent construction of a medical clinic (unfortunately closed due to lack of medical staff). A guesthouse
 is available onsite, and breakfast and dinner are provided to those staying the night. Excellent guided tours of the 
forest are also included, beginning with a morning visit to see the monkeys.

3. Mt. Gemi(Amedzofe)*
Mount Gemi (pronounced “geh-mee) is one of the tallest mountains in all of Ghana. As the nearby town of Amedzofe is
 already very high in altitude, the peak of the mountain is actually a short climb from town. At the very peak of the 
mountain is a tall cross made of iron erected by German missionaries in 1939.

4. Tagbo Falls
5. Ote falls*
Ote Waterfall is close to the beautiful hilltop town of Amedzofe in the Volta Region. In fact, it adds to the great
 experience in the beautiful town of Amedzofe where visitors get to enjoy the mountainous view of the town, the Volta
 River and the waterfall.
This makes the Ote Waterfall a perfect location for a longer experience, with Amedzofe being the place of abode. The 
site of the Waterfall, which gets its source from the Ote River is a 45- minute walk from the town of Amedzofe, and  
requires an adventurous steep descent  from the hilltops to get to the site. You can reach top of Mount gemi by 20minitue on foot.
It is really nice hiking.You can feel fresh air and see superb view!!
From the top you may be able to see tens of kilometres in every direction.


6. Tafi abuife kente village*
Tafi Abuife Kente Village is located in Volta Region. Every child is taught the art of weaving kente upon reaching the age of
 seven – as a birthright, responsibility, and means of making money. The ‘click clack’ sound of looms can be heard across the village


Eastern Region
1. Aburi Botanical Gardens*
Aburi is located on the Akwapim-Togo Range of Ghana. It’s just three quarters of an hour drive from Accra, the capital of Ghana.
 The cool mountainous weather of Aburi makes it a destination for people who love the cool side of life. 
Located in this cool tranquil environment is the Aburi Botanical Gardens. The garden covers a total land area of about one hundred and sixty (160) acres. 
However it is only three (3) acres that have been developed and the remaining serving as a botanical reserve.
Aburi Botanical Gardens is a botanical garden in Aburi in Eastern region of South Ghana. The garden occupies
 an area of 64.8 hectares. It was opened in March, 1890.


2. Tetteh Quarshie's cocoa farm*
This was the first cocoa farm in This was the first cocoa farm in Ghana and the birthplace of Ghana’s burgeoning cocoa industry. The original seedlings 
were brought from Fernando Po Island just off the coast of Equatorial Guinea by Tetteh Quarshie himself in 1879. Three original trees remain.
 There’s little to see (don’t expect a visitor centre or shop), but a guide will take you around the plantation for a few cedi – get the price first.
 Contact the caretaker at the Mampong Chief’s Palace for entry.


4. Akonedi Shrine, larteh*
On the Akwapim Ridge the fetish shrine is an important place of traditional healing and religious ceremonies. Larteh is 56km north of Accra, on the 
Akwapim Ridge. There you will find the Akonodi Shrine where herbal medicine as well as psychic healing is practiced by the fetish. A fee is charged
 to observe religious ceremonies.

5. Okomfo Anokye's shrine*
Okomfo Anokye, a legendary priest, is credited with founding the great Asante Empire. A shrine is dedicated to his supernatural exploits at Awukugua-Akwapim. 
Scattered throughout the towns on the Akwapim Ridge (Awukugua, Apirede, Amanokrom, Brekuso) mysterious phenomena attributed to this 18th century priest can be
 found; for example, his had and foot imprints are permanently etched in solid stone. There is also an ""Oware Board"" which he reportedly carved from 'stone'. 
The Shrine is located at Awukugua 60km from Koforidua




central region
1. kakum national park*
The Kakum National Park has been established in 1932 and used for the last fifty years for thee extraction of timber.Officially opened the park in 1994. 
USAID/Ghana provides institutional support to the Ghana Heritage Conservation Trust to ensure the sustainability of Kakum National Park.
Kakum National Park is on coast of southern Ghana, in West Africa. It protects an area of rainforest, home to endangered mammals such as forest elephants,
bongo antelopes and primates like the Diana monkey. The park is rich in butterflies and birds, including African grey parrots and hornbills. The Canopy Walkway, 
suspended 30 meters above the ground, provides treetop views of the forest.

2. Brenu beach Lodge*
Brenu Beach Lodge is set in Elmina, 8 km from Elmina Castle. Featuring a restaurant, the property also boasts a private beach area. At the resort rooms are equipped
 with a desk, a TV and a private bathroom. Free WiFi is accessible to all guests, while selected rooms here will provide you with a terrace. The rooms will provide
 guests with a fridge. A continental breakfast is available each morning at the property. The area is popular for fishing and car hire is available at this resort.

3. Cape Coast Castle*
Cape Coast Castle is one of about forty "slave castles", or large commercial forts, built on the Gold Coast of West Africa (now Ghana) by European traders.
 It was originally built by the Swedes for trade in timber and gold, but later used in the trans-Atlantic slave trade. Other Ghanaian slave castles include
 Elmina Castle and Fort Christiansborg. They were used to hold slaves before they were loaded onto ships and sold in the Americas, especially the Caribbean.
 This “gate of no return” was the last stop before crossing the Atlantic Ocean

4. Elimina Castle*
Elmina Castle was erected by the Portuguese in 1482 as São Jorge da Mina (St. George of the Mine) Castle, also known simply as Mina or Feitoria da Mina) in
present-day Elmina, Ghana (formerly the Gold Coast). It was the first trading post built on the Gulf of Guinea, so is the oldest European building in existence
 south of the Sahara. First established as a trade settlement, the castle later became one of the most important stops on the route of the Atlantic slave trade.
 The Dutch seized the fort from the Portuguese in 1637, and took over all the Portuguese Gold Coast in 1642. The slave trade continued under the Dutch until 1814; 
in 1872, the Dutch Gold Coast, including the fort, became a possession of the British Empire.

Britain granted the Gold Coast its independence in 1957, and control of the castle was transferred to the nation formed out of the colony, present-day Ghana. Today
 Elmina Castle is a popular historical site, and was a major filming location for Werner Herzog's 1987 drama film Cobra Verde. The castle is recognized by UNESCO as
 a World Heritage Site. 

Upper West Region
1. Gbelle Game Reserve*
The Gbelle Reserve which measures 565km² is an important sanctuary for endangered species of wildlife in the country. The flora is Guinea Savannah vegetation, while
the fauna boasts a collection of animals such as buffalos, elephants, bucks, rhinos, and the largest hers of roan antelopes in Ghana. Also, the reserve is an important
 area for bird watching boasting a concentration of indigenous and migratory bird species.

2. Wa Naa’s Palace*
Wa Naa’s Palace is an extraordinary example of traditional Sudanese mud-brick architecture. Few historic earthen buildings of this style remain in the region because of
the scarcity of skilled artisans needed to undertake annual maintenance. The palace is home to the king of the Wala people, who comprise the majority population of Wa region.
 In the heart of Wa Town, Wa Naa’s Palace is a major cultural attraction, as well as a monument of political, religious, and social significance for local residents. 
The nineteenth-century structure is built using sundried mud-brick walls and Y-shaped wooden columns to support flat roofs of a bush-pole framework which are covered with mud.
 While most of the palace, including the courtyards and rooms, had deteriorated from a lack of regular maintenance, the front façade remained in remarkable condition with a 
series of impressive buttresses with pinnacles rising above the parapet.

3. Gbollu Defence Wall*
Gbollu, 70km north of Wa, was part of the slave route. In the 1`9th century Gbollu Koro Liman built the wall as part of its defence against the slavers.

4. George Ferguson’s Tomb*
George Ekem Fergusion was a Ghanaian colonial agent who was instrumental in convincing local chiefs to sign treaties of friendship with the British. He was later
 (1897) killed by slave raiders, but his tomb preserved in Wa.

Northern Region
1. Mole National Park*
Mole National Park is Ghana’s biggest and best National Park and is located in West Gonja District of the Northern Region. It is 24 km from Damongo, the district 
capital, 146km south east of Tamale, the Regional capital. The park is 700km from Accra and 430km from Kumasi. Mole National Park is 4,577 square kilometres and 
offers visitors close encounters with wild elephants which can always be see near the lodge as they are attracted to the two dams nearby. Mole holds viable and 
interesting populations of large and small mammals, birds, reptiles and insects.

2. Larabanga Mosque*
A 13th century mosque, believed to be first built by Moorish traders, it is one of the holiest site in Ghana. Its distinctive façade has been widely photographed.

3. Daboya
Daboya is 89km west of tamale, Daboya is the 16th century town from the Gonja Kingdom, and a famous source for hand made textiles.

4. Salaga
The slave route is recognized at Salaga, where the Trans-Sahara caravans paused in Salaga market. Leg pegs can still be seen in the market place.